Copying Files
In Linux to copy a file we have cp command. Alternatively we have rsync but mostly we prefer to use cp command in general.

Syntax: cp

cp file1.txt pages.txt
You can check whether the file has been copied or not by referring ls command output.

ls
NOTE: If destination exists it will overwrite the file and in some cases it will ask you for a prompt (yes/no) to overwrite the file or not.

Renaming/Moving a File
In Linux, in order to change the name of a file we use mv command.

Syntax: mv

mv file2.txt note2.txt
You can check whether the file has been renamed or not by referring ls command output.

ls
NOTE: Unlike Windows, Linux filesystem are Case-Sensitive ones, Meaning the file note.txt & NOTE.txt can be referred as two different files. But windows FAT & NTFS filesystem are Case-Insensitive, Meaning the file note.txt & NOTE.txt are same files and you cannot create multiple files with same name.

mv note2.txt NOTE.txt
You can check whether the file has been renamed or not by referring ls command output.

ls
NOTE: If destination exists then it will overwrite the file and in some cases it will ask you for a prompt (yes/no) to overwrite the file or not.

mv command intention is to move the file from one location to another yet we use mainly to rename the files as well.

Shell CLI Shortcuts.
Learn shortcuts to work like a professional and make interacting with command line much easier. Some of the reference links are below.

https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/top-10-shortcuts
Removing Files
In Linux to remove files we have rm command, We can also use unlink command which does the same thing yet rm is widely preferred and used command.

Syntax: rm

touch delfile.txt delfile2.txt delfile3.txt
ls
rm delfile.txt
ls
It may ask you for a prompt (yes/no) [Not all the times] to remove the files. You can suppress the prompt by adding -f option in the command.

rm -f file1.txt
ls
Note: Be careful while removing a file as it deletes all the contents of the file and retrieving the lost data is not possible in most of the cases.