Operating with directory
Copy Directories
Copying directories can be done with the same command cp that is used to copy the files but while copying the directories we need mention -r option.

Syntax: cp -r dir1 dir2 dir3 dir4

It copies all the contents of dir1 into dir2.

Note: If dir2 already exists dir1 will be copied inside dir2

cp -r softserve dir2
Copy always changes the behavior based on Target Directory.

cp SOURCE TARGET

-> if TARGET exists and if it is a file then it is invalid operation.

-> if TARGET exists and if it is a dir then it copies the file inside the directory.

-> if TARGET doesnt exist then it will copy the directory to that TATGET name

Moving/Renaming Directories
Moving directories or renaming directories can be done using mv command.

Syntax: mv source destination

If destination doesn't exist it renames the directory If destination exists the source will be moved into the directory

mv dir2 DIR2
This will rename the directory dir2 as DIR2

ls
Removing Directories
There are two Linux commands you can use to remove a directory from the terminal window or command line:

The rm command removes complete directories, including subdirectories and files.
The rmdir command removes empty directories.
It is important to note that the rm and rmdir commands permanently remove directories without moving them to the Trash directory. This means that you cannot restore a directory removed using these commands.

Syntax: rm [options] [file or directory name]

The different rm command options include:

-f: Forces the removal of all files or directories.
-i: Prompts for confirmation before removing.
-I: Prompts once before removing more than three files or when removing recursively.
-r: Removes directories and their content recursively.
-d: Removes empty directories.
-v: Provides a verbose output.
mkdir DIR3  dir4
ls
rm -rf DIR3
ls
Check the output to see if the directory is deleted or not.

Note: Once the files are removed there is no way of retrieving them.

If the write-protected directory contains other files and directories, use the following command:

rm -rf dir4
ls
The Linux rmdir command removes empty directories only. The command uses the following syntax:

rmdir [options] [directory name]

The rmdir command includes the following options:

--ignore-fail-on-non-empty: Doesn't show an error message when trying to remove a non-empty directory.
-p: Removes the directory along with its parent in the hierarchy.
-v: Provides a verbose output.
--help: Displays help text.
--version: Displays the command version.
rmdir dir3
ls